# PEDAC

## Understanding the Problem

- Input:
  Question

- Output:
  Answer

- Understanding the Problem:
  The question is asking what a good place to find JavaScript documentation is.

- Clarifying Questions:
  Do answers other than MDN count?

## Examples / Test Cases

What is an excellent destination when looking for JavaScript documentation?

> MDN
> StackOverflow

## Data Structures

- String
  > Input
- String
  > Output

## Algorithm

Think of what I use to solve coding questions on a daily basis at work.

## Code

Mozilla Developer Network
StackOverflow
GitHub Issues

## Official Solution

### Solution

The [JavaScript pages on MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript) are a valuable resource that you should reference frequently as you learn JavaScript. They provide both [tutorials](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide) and a [reference](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects) of JavaScript's built-in objects and their properties and methods, operators, and more. You can also find information about browser compatibility and specifications.

### Discussion

Take some time to familiarize yourself with MDN; you will need to reference it often. In particular, make sure you know where the search bar is, as it is often the fastest entry point - whether you're looking for `Array` methods, examples of using the `break` statement, an explanation of *first-class functions*, or any other information.
