# PEDAC

## Understanding the Problem

- Input:
  String and Number

- Output:
  Boolean

- Rules / Requirements:
  Determine if two values are equal using `==` and `===`.
  Explain why they are equal or unequal.

- Clarifying Questions:
  - How deep into explanation of strict vs loose equality do we go?

## Examples / Test Cases

```js
"8" == 8;
"8" === 8;
```

## Data Structures

- String

  > Input

- Number

  > Input

- Boolean
  > Output

## Algorithm

The loose equality operator `==`, will check if two values are of the same value but it doesn't check if they are of the same type. The strict equality operator on the other hand will check if the value are the same value as well as if they are the same type.

The first expression will return true and the second false. This is because the strict equality will find a difference in the number 8 and the string 8 and return false.

## Code

```js
true;
false;
```

---

---

## Official Solution

```js
"8" == 8; // true
"8" === 8; // false
```

`==`, also known as the standard or abstract equality operator, will attempt to convert its operands to the same type before making a comparison.

`===`, also known as the strict equality operator, does **not** perform any type conversion on its operands. It will always return `false` if its operands are of different types. On the second line of our code example, we attempted to compare a string to a number and therefore the return value was `false`.

We recommend that you always use the strict equality operator (`===`) unless you have a specific reason not to. This will help to avoid unexpected behavior in your code. Later in the curriculum, you will learn more about JavaScript's type conversions and the rules they follow.

---
