# PEDAC

## Understanding the Problem

- Input:
  String

- Output:
  String

- Rules / Requirements:

  - Is there a method to capitalize a string, for example turning `'mountain'` into `'Mountain'`?

- Clarifying Questions:
  - Do we need to save this new string to a variable?
  - Can we use any methods at our disposal or is there a specific answer that is expected?
  - Can we use the `toUpperCase` method in any way?

## Examples / Test Cases

```js
"mountain";
// Into
"Mountain";

```

## Data Structures

- String
  > Input
- String
  > Output

## Algorithm

There are a few ways in which this could be accomplished, I think the simplest way would be to store the string in a variable, and reassign the variable to the return value of calling `string[0].toUpperCase() + string.slice(1);` This way, when we call toUpperCase, it will return the uppercase value of whatever we called it on, and we concatenate the rest of the string on using the `string.slice()` method. We have to store this new value into a variable or reassign our current variable because primitive values are immutable and we cannot change the original value.

## Code

```js
let string = "mountain";
string = string[0].toUpperCase() + string.slice(1);
console.log(string);
```

---

## Official Solution

### Solution

There is no built-in method for capitalizing a string. If we wanted to have such a method, we would have to implement it ourselves.

### Discussion

Searching MDN for `capitalize` does not yield any string methods as results. In order to be sure that there really is no method, being called and described differently, you can check the [MDN reference page for `String`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/prototype): it lists all methods that are available for strings.
