# PEDAC

## Understanding the Problem

- Input:
  Array

- Output:
  Unknown/TDB

- Rules / Requirements:

  - What are the return values of the statements on lines 3 to 5? Refer to the MDN documentation about the `Array` object for help.

- Clarifying Questions:
  - Can I look on MDN for the answers?

## Examples / Test Cases

```js
let trees = ["birch", "pine", "sequoia", "palm tree"];

trees[trees.length - 1];
trees.pop();
trees[trees.length - 1];
```

## Data Structures

- Input:

  > Array

- Output:
  > ?

## Algorithm

I know that access the length - 1 will return the last element. This is because length is a property that starts counting at one so we have to do -1 because arrays start at index 0.
`.pop()` Is a method that mutates the array by removing the last element in the array. The return value is the newly removed element.
We once again access the last element, this time however the array is different because we modified the source array with pop. Now it will return the _newest_ last element.

## Code

```js
"palm tree";
"palm tree";
"sequoia";

```

---

---

## Official Answer

```js
let trees = ["birch", "pine", "sequoia", "palm tree"];

trees[trees.length - 1]; // 'palm tree'
trees.pop(); // 'palm tree'
trees[trees.length - 1]; // 'sequoia'
```

Note that we use `trees.length` (without parentheses) and `trees.pop()` (with parentheses). If you try using `trees.length()` and `trees.pop`, you will notice that this does not work. For now, simply remember that `length` is an array *property* and is called without parentheses; `pop` is an array *method* that must be invoked with parentheses (because it is a function). You will learn more about this later.

Also notice that the index of the last element in an array will always be the length of that array minus 1. For example, the last index in a four-element array is 3. This is due to arrays having a zero-based index.
