# PEDAC

## Understanding the Problem

- Input:

  - string

- Output:

  - TBD

- Rules / Requirements:

  - Given a variable that holds a string, we are tasked with determining the return value of calling different methods including split, reverse, and join on our variable that contains a string.

- Clarifying Questions:
  - No questions

## Examples / Test Cases

```js
let tweet = "Starting to get the hang of it... #javascript #launchschool";

tweet.split(" ");
tweet.split(" ").reverse();
tweet.split(" ").reverse().join(" ");
```

## Data Structures

- String

  > Input

- TBD
  > Output

## Algorithms

This problem requires an understanding of these different string methods as well as what they return and how method chaining works.
Split will take a delimiter value and splits a string on the delimiter and returns an array containing all the values.
We can then chain reverse on to reverse the array.
Finally, join is called and join will join every element in the array together putting the delimiter value between each element as it joins them. This join method returns a string with the new value.

## Code

```js
[
  "Starting",
  "to",
  "get",
  "the",
  "hang",
  "of",
  "it...",
  "#javascript",
  "#launchschool",
];
//
[
  "#launchschool",
  "#javascript",
  "it...",
  "of",
  "hang",
  "the",
  "get",
  "to",
  "Starting",
];
//
("#launchschool #javascript it... of hand the get to Starting");
```

---

---

## Official Solution

```js
tweet.split(" ");
// ["Starting", "to", "get", "the", "hang", "of", "it...", "#javascript", "#launchschool"]

tweet.split(" ").reverse();
// ["#launchschool", "#javascript", "it...", "of", "hang", "the", "get", "to", "Starting"]

tweet.split(" ").reverse().join(" ");
// '#launchschool #javascript it... of hang the get to Starting'
```

In order to find the documentation for each method call, we need to know where to look. Our initial method call, `split()`, is invoked on the string `tweet`. We can find information about this method in the String documentation.

Because `split()` returns an array, we know that `reverse()` is being invoked on an array and can search the Array documentation to find information about it.

Since `reverse()` also returns an array (with the elements of the input array in reverse order), we can again look within the Array documentation to find information about the return value of `join()`.

---
