# PEDAC

## Understanding the Problem

- Input:
  Code snippet

- Output:
  TBD

- Rules / Requirements:
  Determine the output of the given code statement.

- Clarifying Questions:
  None

## Examples / Test Cases

```js
function myFunction() {
  let a = 1;

  if (true) {
    console.log(a);
    let a = 2;
    console.log(a);
  }
}

myFunction();
```

## Data Structures

- function
- variable
- conditional
- boolean
- console.log
  > Input / Body

## Algorithm

This function will throw an error. This is because we are declaring a new `a` variable in the block of our if statement, which will take precedence over the function scoped `a` variable. When we try to log out a inside the if block we will get an error saying that we cannot access `a` before initialization.

## Code

```js
ReferenceError: Cannot access `a` before initialization.
```

---

---

## Official Solution

```txt
ReferenceError: Cannot access 'a' before initialization
```

Your initial hunch might have been that this code should output the numbers `1` (on line 5) and `2` (on line 7). The reason that doesn't happen is that variables declared by `let` aren't available until the code runs. Therefore, the `let` statement on line 6 creates a new variable `a` that isn't available on line 5. Since we try to log `a` before assigning it a value, a `ReferenceError` is raised.

Technically, the scope of `a` is the entire block. JavaScript does hoist the variables defined by `let`, but, when it does, it creates a "temporal dead zone" in which the variable exists but doesn't have a value -- not even a value of `undefined`. We talk more about the temporal dead zone in a later course.

Note that the variable `a` defined on line 6 shadows the variable `a` defined on line 2.

---
