# PEDAC

## Understanding the Problem

- Input:
  - Code snippet
- Output:
  - Formatted code snippet
- Rules / Requirements:
  - Given a code snippet, find all violations of the style guide. Rewrite to adhere to style guide.
- Clarifying Questions:
  - Can we use prettier?
  - Do we need to list out each style guide violation?

## Examples / Test Cases

```js
let ice_cream_taste = "chocolate";
let ice_cream_density = 10;

while (ice_cream_density > 0) {
  console.log("Drip...");
  ice_cream_density -= 1;
}

console.log("The " + ice_cream_taste + " ice cream melted.");
```

## Data Structures

- Strings
- Numbers
- Loops
- console.logs
  > Input

## Algorithm

We are tasked with fixing the styling on this code snippet. The first offence is that there is no space after the while keyword. Then we should put the first bracket of the while loop on the same line the loop is declared. We should have the console.log statement directly beneath that. We can also add semicolons to the end of our variables. The last thing we need to fix is to add spaces between our string concatenations. Such as between the plus operator and the strings.

## Code

```js
let ice_cream_taste = "chocolate";
let ice_cream_density = 10;

while (ice_cream_density > 0) {
  console.log("Drip...");
  ice_cream_density -= 1;
}

console.log("The " + ice_cream_taste + " ice cream melted.");
```

---

---

## Official Solution

Here are the guidelines that were not followed in the original code snippet:

- Use camelCase for variable names.
- End all statements with a semicolon.
- Indent lines with two spaces.
- Use spaces between keywords (like `while`) and opening parentheses, as well as between closing parentheses and opening curly brackets.
- Put the opening curly brackets of the `while` block on the same line as the `while` statement.
- Put spaces before and after operators like `+`.

---
