# PEDAC

## Understanding the Problem

- Input:
  Code snippet

- Output:
  Diagnosis of code snippet

- Rules / Requirements:
  Given a code snippet, we need to diagnose the errors that are contained in that code snippet and fix them.

- Clarifying Questions:
  None

## Examples / Test Cases

```js
let tweet = "Woohoo! :-)";

if (tweet.length() > 140) {
  console.log("Tweet is too long!");
}
```

## Data Structures

None

## Algorithm

The error message that we get when trying to run this code is `TypeError: tweet.length is not a function`. This means that we are using the `.length` property in an incorrect manner. If we look at the MDN documentation, we can see that `.length` is a _property_ available to strings and not a _method_. To fix this, we can remove the _invocation_ of length so that it's just a static property.

## Code

```js
let tweet = "Woohoo! :-)";

if (tweet.length > 140) {
  console.log("Tweet is too long!");
}
```

---

---

## Official Solution

The syntax section of [the MDN page on `length`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/length) demonstrates that `length` is called without parentheses. This is because it is a string *property*, not a string *method*.

Why does our code raise [a `TypeError`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypeError)? According to the documentation of `length`, it returns a number. So `tweet.length` is expected to be a number. Instead, we try to invoke it as a function when we write `tweet.length()`. So when the JavaScript engine encounters `tweet.length()`, there is a type mismatch: `tweet.length` is expected to be a number, but we use it as a function.

You might also recall `length` from the *Property vs Method* exercise. We will talk about properties and methods in more detail in a later course.

---
