# PEDAC

## Understanding the Problem

- Input:

  - Question

- Output:

  - String (answer)

- Rules / Requirements:

  - Without looking into your notes, try to remember which primitive data types are defined in JavaScript. Then find this information on MDN.

- Clarifying Questions:
  - Do BigInt and Symbol count for this answer?

## Examples / Test Cases

None

## Data Structures

Part of the answer

## Algorithm

Cannot look at notes so it's all based off memory.

## Code

```txt
String
Number
Undefined
Null
Boolean
Symbol
BigInt
```

---

---

## Official Solution

There are seven primitive data types:

- `Number`
- `BigInt`
- `Boolean`
- `String`
- `Symbol`
- `null`
- `Undefined`

Note that `Symbol` was added only in ES6, and `BigInt` was introduced in ES9. We do not discuss either type in this course.

You may see occasional references to `null` being an object, even on MDN. But, even there, you will also find statements that say it is primitive type. The history and behavior of `null` is somewhat confusing, but, for our purposes, it is a primitive type.

You can find this information on the [JavaScript data types and data structures](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures) page.

In addition to the primitive data types, JavaScript has one non-primitive type: `Object` (which also comprises arrays). The main difference is that values of a [primitive](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Primitive) type are immutable. That is, there is no way to change values like `47`, `'Launch School'`, or `true`, while you can change non-primitive values like arrays, e.g. by adding or removing elements.

---
