# PEDAC

## Understanding the Problem

- Input:
  Date object

- Output:
  Number

- Rules / Requirements:
  The [MDN page for `Date`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date) lists two methods to get the year of a date.
  `new Date.getYear()` and `new Date.getFullYear()`. What's the different and which one should you use?

- Clarifying Questions:
  None

## Examples / Test Cases

```js
let today = new Date();

today.getYear();
today.getFullYear();
```

## Data Structures

- Date object

  > Input

- Number
  > Output of Date object

## Algorithm

The `getYear()` method returns the year in the specified date according to local time. Because `getYear()` does not return full years ("year 2000 problem"), it is no longer used and has been replaced by the [`getFullYear()`](https://devdocs.io/javascript/global_objects/date/getfullyear) method.

The `getFullYear()` method returns the year of the specified date according to local time.

The difference is that `getYear` is deprecated because it does not return full years. This is a problem as of Y2K and this method is now deprecated in favor of using `getFullYear` which returns the 4 digit year.

---

---

## Official Solution

`Date.prototype.getYear()` returns a number representing the year of the date on which it is invoked, minus 1900. For example, if the date is sometime in 2019, `getYear()` will return `119`.

`Date.prototype.getFullYear()` returns a number representing the year of the date on which it is invoked. For example, if the date is sometime in 2019, `getFullYear()` will return `2019`.

As the documentation notes, `getYear()` is deprecated and you should avoid using it. It is being replaced with `getFullYear()`, which returns a four-digit number representing the year, as expected.

---
