# PEDAC

## Understanding the Problem

- Input:
  Strings

- Output:
  String

- Rules / Requirements:
  Given two or more strings, how can we join them together.

- Clarifying Questions:
  - Is this supposed to be a function?
  - Is this just supposed to use the `+` operator?

## Examples / Test Cases

```js
let string1 = "Hello";
let string2 = "World";
```

## Data Structures

- Strings

  > Input

- String
  > Output

## Algorithm

We can either use the `+` operator to join strings or we can use a variety of other string concatenation methods.

We could also create a function that will spread all of its arguments into an array and we could join and return that array.

We can also use the `string.concat` method to join strings.

## Code

```js
let string1 = "Hello";
let string2 = "World";
console.log(string1 + string2);
// Hello World
```

Or

```js
const stringMerger = (...strings) => [...strings].join(" ");
stringMerger("Hello", "World");
// Hello World
```

Or

```js
const str1 = "Hello";
const str2 = "World";

console.log(str1.concat(" ", str2));
// "Hello World"
```

---

---

## Official Solution

Both the [`String.prototype.concat()` method](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/concat) and the `+` operator concatenate two or more strings, returning a new string.

Take a close look at the *Syntax* section on `concat()`'s documentation page:

```js
str.concat(string2[, string3, ..., stringN])

```

Note that `str` is the calling string, and the method parameters are placed within parentheses. The brackets indicate optional arguments. So, this line of the documentation indicates that we *can* provide any number of string arguments, but we *must* provide at least one.

Here is an example:

```js
let firstName = "Ada";
let lastName = "Lovelace";

"".concat(firstName, " ", lastName);
// 'Ada Lovelace'
```

Under the "Syntax" heading, we also see the return value specified as "a new string containing the combined text of the strings provided." This portion of a method's documentation is extremely useful. It demonstrates the expected syntax and provides important information about the method parameters and return value.

Also note that the documentation says:

> It is strongly recommended that the assignment operators (`+`, `+=`) are used instead of the `concat()` method.

So a second (and, in fact, preferred) way to concatenate strings, is using `+`, for example:

```js
let firstName = "Ada";
let lastName = "Lovelace";

firstName + " " + lastName;
// 'Ada Lovelace'
```

---
