# PEDAC

## Understanding the Problem

- Input:
  2 snippets

- Output:
  Difference between the two

- Rules / Requirements:
  We are given two code snippets containing loops, and we need to find the difference between the two snippets.
  Do this without running anything beforehand.

- Clarifying Questions:
  None

## Examples / Test Cases

```js
let counter = 0;

while (counter > 0) {
  console.log("Woooot!");
  counter -= 1;
}
```

```js
let counter = 0;

do {
  console.log("Woooot!");
  counter -= 1;
} while (counter > 0);
```

## Data Structures

- while loop
  > snippet 1
- do while loop
  > snippet 2

## Algorithm

We have to look on MDN for the different in do while and while loops. The main difference is that do while loops will execute the code in their block at least once because the conditional is after the loop block. So the first snippet will not execute because the condition is never met but the second snippet will execute once because the condition cannot be found until after execution of the block.

## Code

```js
let counter = 0;

while (counter > 0) {
  console.log("Woooot!");
  counter -= 1;
}
// =>

let counter = 0;

do {
  console.log("Woooot!");
  counter -= 1;
} while (counter > 0);
// => Woooot!
```

---

---

## Official Solution

Both statements execute the given block as long as the condition evaluates to true. The difference is that the condition in [a `while statement`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/while) is checked **before** executing the block, while the condition in [a `do...while` statement](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/do...while) is checked **after** the block has been executed. So the block in a `do...while` statement will always be executed at least once, even if the condition is not satisfied.

Therefore the second code snippet logs `'Woooot!'` once, while the first code snippet does not log anything.

---
