# PEDAC

## Understanding the Problem

- Input:
  String (in the form of a template)

- Output:
  String (with interpolated values)

- Rules / Requirements:
  Create a madlibs template (The {noun} {adjective} etc...)
  Put in a random noun/adjective etc.. for every available space in the string.
  Return a new string with the values interpolated.
  Create some replacement words to input in the new string.

- Questions:
  How many templates do we need to make?
  Any input validation?

## Examples / Test Cases

// The "sleepy" brown "cat" "noisily"
// "licks" the "sleepy" yellow
// "dog", who "lazily" "licks" his
// "tail" and looks around.

// The "fox" "bites" the "dog"'s "tail".

## Data Structures

- Array
  Holding the replacement words
- Random indexes
  Pick a random word from the correct replacement words storage
- Template literals
  Pass in the correct values to our returned string
- Template
  String with spaces for new values

## Algorithm

Create a function called madlibs that takes 1 argument (template).
Create a template with spaces to pass in replacement grammar.
Create arrays containing replacement words for each grammar type.
Create a function that takes one argument (wordType) and then will select a random word from the wordType array (e.g. 'verbs')
Call function for each space where we need a replacement word and pass in the correct type.
Return the new interpolated string.

## Code

```js
const words = {
  adjective: ["quick", "lazy", "sleepy", "noisy", "hungry"],
  noun: ["fox", "dog", "head", "leg", "tail", "cat"],
  verb: ["jumps", "lifts", "bites", "licks", "pats"],
  adverb: ["easily", "lazily", "noisily", "excitedly"],
};

const pickWord = (wordType) => {
  let index = words[wordType].length;
  return words[wordType][Math.floor(Math.random() * index)];
};

const template = `The ${pickWord("adjective")} brown ${pickWord(
  "noun"
)} ${pickWord("adverb")}
${pickWord("verb")} the ${pickWord("adjective")} yellow
${pickWord("noun")}, who ${pickWord("adverb")} ${pickWord("verb")} his
${pickWord("noun")} and looks around.`;

const madlibs = (template) => {
  console.log(template);
};

madlibs(template);
```
