# PEDAC

## Understanding the Problem

- Input:
  Two arrays containing sorted integer values

- Output:
  One array containing ascending sorted integers

- Rules / Requirements:
  We are given two arrays as arguments, these arrays contain ascending order integers.
  We need to return one array containing the values from both argument arrays, sorted in ascending order.
  We cannot sort the result array, we must build it one element at a time.
  We cannot mutate the argument arrays.
  If there are empty arrays we just use the opposite array values as there is no need for comparison.
  Assuming there will be at least one array containing valid values.

## Examples / Test Cases

```js
merge([1, 5, 9], [2, 6, 8]); // [1, 2, 5, 6, 8, 9]
merge([1, 1, 3], [2, 2]); // [1, 1, 2, 2, 3]
merge([], [1, 4, 5]); // [1, 4, 5]
merge([1, 4, 5], []); // [1, 4, 5]
```

## Data Structures

- Arrays containing integers
- Looping
- Result array
- Numeric comparison

## Algorithm

Create a function called `merge` that takes 2 arrays as its arguments.
Create an empty `results` array.
Get the longest array and assign a variable `longest` to that length so we know how long to run our `for` loop.
Check if either array is empty, and if they are return the non-empty array.
Now we can make a copy of both of the arrays so as to not mutate either of them.
Then we create a for loop that has the stopping length set to the length of both arrays combined.
Then we can perform multiple if statements to check which side has the bigger integer.
Whichever side has the bigger integer we can push to the result array.
We can use `shift` to remove the element entirely from the copied array and then we can push it straight in because shift returns the element it just removed.
Then we need to return the results array.

## Code

```js
const merge = (arr1, arr2) => {
  const result = [];

  let duration = arr1.length + arr2.length;

  let leftCopy = [...arr1];
  let rightCopy = [...arr2];

  if (!arr1.length) return arr2;
  if (!arr2.length) return arr1;

  for (let i = 0; i < duration; i += 1) {
    if (!leftCopy[0] && rightCopy[0]) result.push(rightCopy.shift());
    else if (leftCopy[0] === rightCopy[0]) result.push(rightCopy.shift());
    else if (leftCopy[0] && !rightCopy[0]) result.push(leftCopy.shift());
    else if (leftCopy[0] > rightCopy[0]) result.push(rightCopy.shift());
    else result.push(leftCopy.shift());
  }

  return result;
};
```
