# PEDAC

## Understanding the Problem

- Input:
  Array of integers or strings (ascending value / alphabetical order)
  Number or string to search for in the array

- Output:
  Index of the given number or string in the array

- Rules / Requirements:
  Instead of using a linear search, we are going to use a binary search.
  A binary search involves taking the middle value of an array and checking if it is equal to the item we're searching for. If it is, we can return the index, otherwise, we know that everything after that value cannot be what we're looking for because they're sorted numerically or alphabetically.
  If it's not the value we're looking for we can slice the array in half and then we can go to the middle of our sliced array and repeat the process.
  If we can't find the value, we need to return `-1`.

## Examples / Test Cases

```js
let yellowPages = [
  "Apple Store",
  "Bags Galore",
  "Bike Store",
  "Donuts R Us",
  "Eat a Lot",
  "Good Food",
  "Pasta Place",
  "Pizzeria",
  "Tiki Lounge",
  "Zooper",
];
binarySearch(yellowPages, "Pizzeria"); // 7
binarySearch(yellowPages, "Apple Store"); // 0

binarySearch([1, 5, 7, 11, 23, 45, 65, 89, 102], 77); // -1
binarySearch([1, 5, 7, 11, 23, 45, 65, 89, 102], 89); // 7
binarySearch([1, 5, 7, 11, 23, 45, 65, 89, 102], 5); // 1

binarySearch(
  ["Alice", "Bonnie", "Kim", "Pete", "Rachel", "Sue", "Tyler"],
  "Peter"
); // -1
binarySearch(
  ["Alice", "Bonnie", "Kim", "Pete", "Rachel", "Sue", "Tyler"],
  "Tyler"
); // 6
```

## Data Structures

- Array
- String / Integer
- Binary sorting

## Algorithm

Create a function called `binarySearch` that takes 2 arguments, `arr` and `value`.
Create a halfway point that we can use to either expand our search or limit our search.
Create high and low variable to track whether we are going to be moving left or right.
Create a while(true) loop so that we can keep accessing the array as many times as we need to.
Create an `if` statement to check whether the value is greater or less than the halfway point.
If the halfway is greater, assign high to equal the current halfway point.
If the halfway is less, assign low to equal the current halfway point.

## Code

```js
const binarySearch = (arr, value) => {
  let high = arr.length - 1;
  let low = 0;

  while (low <= high) {
    let middle = low + Math.floor((high - low) / 2);
    if (arr[middle] === value) return middle;
    else if (value > arr[middle]) low = middle + 1;
    else high = middle - 1;
  }

  return -1;
};
```
